THE HONBLE SRI JUSTICE A.RAMALINGESWARA RAO             

CIVIL REVISION PETITION No.3618 OF 2014     

06032015    

Kunkuntla NarsimhaPetitioner  

Syed Zainulabuddin Respondents   

Counsel for the Petitioner: Sri M.Rama Rao

Counsel for the Respondents:  Sri M.Raja Malla Reddy 

&lt;Gist :

&gt;Head Note : 


? Cases referred

1. 2009 (5) ALT 304
2. 2015 (1) ALT 410
3. 2007 (3) ALT 689
4. AIR 1981 MADRAS 354    
5. AIR 1986 ALLAHABAD 9    
6. AIR 1980 SC 470 
7. 1969 Ker LT 927


THE HON'BLE SRI JUSTICE A.RAMALINGESWARA RAO             

CIVIL REVISION PETITION No.3618 of 2014    

ORDER:          

        This Civil Revision Petition is directed against the order
dated 10.07.2013 in E.P.No.75 of 2013 in O.S.No.477 of 2004
passed by the learned Junior Civil Judge, Nalgonda District
(for short, trial Court).

2.      The judgment debtor in the suit for permanent injunction
is the petitioner and the decree holder is the respondent
herein.  The suit, O.S.No.477 of 2004 filed by the respondent,
was dismissed on 16.03.2009 and the respondent preferred 
an appeal in A.S.No.48 of 2010 and the same was allowed by 
the learned I Additional District Judge at Nalgonda (for short,
appellate Court) on 01.03.2012.  The respondent filed
E.P.No.75 of 2013 before the trial Court seeking arrest of the
petitioner herein under Order XXI Rule 37 of the Civil
Procedure Code (for short, Code) with the following
averments. 
     The decree holder filed suit for the relief of
perpetual injunction in respect of the suit schedule
property against the judgment debtor herein vide
O.S.No.477/2004 on the file of Junior Civil Judge,
Nalgonda.  It was dismissed on 16-03-2009.  Against
the said decree and judgment, the decree holder filed
appeal before the Honble 1st Addl. District Judge,
Nalgonda vide A.S.No.48/2010.  It was allowed and
granted perpetual injunction against the judgment
debtor herein in respect of the suit schedule property,
restraining the J.Dr herein and his agents, servants
and associates etc., as not to interfere with the
possession of the decree holder in any manner.  Even
the passing of this decree and judgment against the
J.Dr herein, the J.Dr continuing his illegal interference
and trying to dispossess the decree holder from his
house premises.  The decree holder constructed a
house in the suit plot during the pendency of the suit.
The decree holder resisted the illegal interference of the
J.Dr with the help of elders.  The J.Dr is mustering his
strength with the help of gunda elements and
threatening and making several efforts for
dispossession since 10th March, 2013. 

3.      The petitioner herein remained ex parte.  After examining
the respondent herein as P.W.1, the following docket order
was passed by the trial Court on 10.07.2013.
     Heard the counsel for the petitioner, respondent
received notices but did not contest the petition.  He
was set exparte, the petitioner examined as PW-1
perused the averments and the evidence of the PW-1 
they revealed that the petitioner is the decree holder of
this E.P., and filed this suit for perpetual injunction in
respect of the suit schedule property against the J.Drs.,
herein in vide O.S.No.477 of 2004, the said suit was
dismissed on 16-03-2009 and the appeal by the 
petitioners herein it was allowed by the first Additional
District and Sessions Judge, Nalgonda, in A.S.No.48 of
2010 granting perpetual injunction against the J.Drs.,
as on the basing of the decree against the J.Drs., they
are continuing the illegal interference and trying to
dispossess the petitioner for the schedule premises.  As
per the evidence of the PW-1 he resisted the illegal
interference with the J.Dr., with the help of the elders.
The J.Dr., is mustering strength with the help of
goonda elements and threatening and making several 
efforts to dispossession since 10th March, 2013.

        Therefore, in the above said circumstances,
though the petitioner obtained decree against the
respondents not to interfere them in the possession of
the schedule property, but the respondent J.Drs., are
continuing their illegal interference and trying to
dispossess the petitioner, it is just and necessary to
send the J.Dr., to prison for six months for violating the
decree granted by the Honble 1st Addl. Dist. Judge,
Nalgonda in A.S.No.48 of 2010.

Challenging the same, the present Civil Revision Petition is
filed.
4.      The learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that no
execution petition seeking arrest of the judgment debtor is
maintainable under Order XXI Rule 37 of the Code.  He relied
on two decisions of this Court in Sadhana Educational
Society V. S.B.V.M. High School  and Malle Ranga Reddy   
V. Thirunagaru Purushotham .  The learned counsel for the
respondent, on the other hand, submitted that in view of the
violation of decree of injunction, the application for arrest of
the judgment debtor is maintainable.

5.      The facts in this case are not in dispute.  The respondent
herein filed O.S.No.477 of 2004 against the petitioner seeking
permanent injunction in respect of house plot No.1-A
admeasuring 336.11 square yards, situated in survey No.409,
Gollaguda Revenue Village, B.T.S. Locality, Nalgonda Town
and District and the same was dismissed on 16.03.2009. 
Challenging the same, the respondent herein preferred
A.S.No.48 of 2010 and the same was allowed on 01.03.2012.  
Similarly, the petitioner herein filed O.S.No.489 of 2004 on
the file of the Court of Junior Civil Judge, Nalgonda against
the respondent herein in respect of land of an extent of 336
square yards in survey Nos.407 and 408 within Ward No.5, 
Block No.8, situated at Gollaguda Revenue Village, B.T.S.
Locality, Nalgonda Town and District.  The said suit was
decreed on 16.03.2009 and the respondent herein preferred
A.S.No.49 of 2010 on the file of the Court of I Additional
District Judge, Nalgonda and the same was dismissed on 
01.03.2012.  Both the decrees have become final.  Now the
respondent herein, who is the decree holder in O.S.No.477 of
2004, filed the present application for execution seeking
arrest of the petitioner herein.

6.      It is also not in dispute that Order XXI of the Code deals
with execution of decrees.  Now it has to be examined whether
the first point raised by the learned counsel for the petitioner
that the execution petition filed by the decree holder under
Order XXI Rule 37 of the Code seeking arrest of the judgment
debtor in respect of the immovable property is maintainable
or not.

7.      The relevant portion of Section 57 of the Code reads as
follows:
 51.  Powers of Court to enforce execution:-
Subject to such conditions and limitations as may be
prescribed, the Court may, on the application of the
decree-holder, order execution of the decree-

a)      by delivery of any property specifically decreed;
b)      by attachment and sale or by the sale without
attachment of any property;
c)      by arrest and detention in prison for such period not
exceeding the period specified in section 58, where
arrest and detention is permissible under that
section;
d)      by appointing a receiver; or
e)      In such other manner as the nature of the relief
granted may require.

8.      The relevant portion of the Order XXI Rule 32 of the Code
reads as follows:
  32.  Decree for specific performance for
restitution of conjugal rights, or for an injunction:-
(1)  Where the party against whom a decree for the
specific performance of a contract, or for restitution of
conjugal rights, or for an injunction, has been passed,
has had an opportunity of obeying the decree and has
willfully failed to obey it, the decree may be enforced in
the case of a decree for restitution of conjugal rights by
the attachment of his property or, in the case of a
decree for the specific performance of a contract or for
an injunction by his detention in the civil prison, or by
the attachment of his property, or by both.

(2)..      
(3)..      
(4)..      

(5)  Where a decree for the specific performance of a
contract or for an injunction has not been obeyed, the
Court may, in lieu of or in addition to all or any of the
processes aforesaid, direct that direct that the act
required to be done may be done so far as practicable
by the decree-holder or some other person appointed by
the Court, at the cost of the judgment-debtor, and upon
the act being done the expenses incurred may be 
ascertained in such manner as the Court may direct
and may be recovered as if they were included in the
decree.

9.      Rule 37 of Order XXI provides for arrest of the judgment
debtor in case of execution of decree for the payment of
money.  Rule 11 of Order XXI prescribes the procedure for an
application for execution of a decree.  Sub-clause (ii) of Rule
11 (2)(j) of Order XXI was inserted by Act 104 of 1976 w.e.f.
01.02.1977, and after insertion, 11 (2)(j) reads as follows:

 (j)  the mode in which the assistance of the Court is
required whether:-

(i)   by the delivery of any property specifically decreed;
(ii)  by the attachment, or by the attachment and sale,
      or by the sale without attachment, of any property;
(iii) by the arrest and detention in prison of any person;
(iv) by the appointment of a receiver;
(v)  otherwise, as the nature of the relief granted may
     require.

10.     Rules 30 to 36 of Order XXI come under the heading
mode of execution and a reading of them make it clear that
civil prison is one of the modes of execution of decree for
injunction.  Hence, the contention raised by the learned
counsel for the petitioner has no substance.

11.     The next point that remains for consideration is, whether
in the facts and circumstances of the case, the impugned
order ordering detention of the petitioner in civil prison for a
period of six months, is legal or not.

12.     The respondent has not stated any reason except stating
that judgment debtor is mustering his strength with the help
of gunda elements and threatening and making several efforts
for dispossession since March, 2013, as provided under Rule
11A of Order XXI of the Code.  The trial Court recorded the
same ground, without giving any finding with regard to the
said allegation in the execution petition, supported by oral
evidence given by the respondent herein as PW-1.  It ordered
detention of the petitioner for alleged violation of the decree
granted by the appellate Court in A.S.No.48 of 2010.  The
detention of a party to the civil litigation has a serious
consequence and has to be resorted very rarely since it
violates human rights.  This cannot be done in the absence of
any finding as to the violation made by that person.  Though
the provisions exist for detention of a person for violating the
decree of injunction, that power has to be exercised
cautiously and in rarest of rare cases and only after recording
a finding.

13.     This Court in Sadhana Educational Societys case (1
supra), held that the liberty of a person can be taken away
only in extreme cases, after necessary ingredients prescribed
by law are proved.  In Malle Ranga Reddys case (2 supra),
this Court, by relying on a judgment in Koya Ranga Reddy
V. Koya Narayana Reddy , held that unless the decree 
holder, by cogent and convincing evidence, proves the
existence of the ingredients of Rule 32 Order XXI of the Code,
the order of arrest cannot be made.  The Judgments of the
Madras High Court in V.S.Alwar V. Gurusamy Thevar  and  
the Allahabad High Court in Harihar Pandey V. Mangala 
Prasad Singh  are also to the same effect.  Way back in the
year 1980, the Honble Supreme Court in Jolly George
Varghese V. Bank of Cochin , which arose out of Order XXI
Rule 37, held that in the absence of mala fides and
dishonesty on the part of the judgment debtor, who was not
having means to pay, the arrest and detention of civil prison
would be violative of Article 11 of International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights and Article 21 of the Constitution of
India.  The Honble Supreme Court, speaking through Justice
V.R.Krishna Iyer, reiterated the observations made in Xavier
V. Canara Bank Ltd. , wherein it was held as follows:
While considering the international impact of
international covenants on municipal law, the decision
concluded: 

            Indeed the construction I have adopted of S.51 C.P.C has
the flavour of Article 11 of the Human Rights Covenants,
Counsel for the appellant insisted that law and justice
must be on speaking terms  by justice he meant, in the
present case, that a debtor unable to pay must not be
detained in civil prison.  But my interpretation does put law
and justice on speaking terms.  Counsel for the respondent
did argue that International Law is the vanishing point of
jurisprudence it itself vanishing in a world where humanity
is moving steadily, though slowly, towards a world order,
led by that intensely active, although yet ineffectual body,
the United Nations Organisation.  Its resolutions and
covenants mirror the conscience of mankind and 
inseminate, within the member States, progressive
legislation, but till this last step of actual enactment of law
takes place, the citizen in a world of sovereign States, has
only inchoate rights in the domestic Courts under these
international covenants.

     While dealing with the impact of the Dicean rule of law
on positive law, Hood Philips wrote  and this is all that the
Covenant means now for Indian courts administering
municipal law.

     The significance of this kind of doctrine for the English
lawyer is that it finds expression in three ways.  First, it
influences legislators.  The substantive law at any given
time may approximate to the rule of law, but this only at
the will of Parliament.  Secondly, its principles provide
canons of interpretation which express the individualistic
attitude of English Courts and of those Courts which have
followed the English tradition.  They give an indication of
how the law will be applied and legislation interpreted.
English Courts lean in favour of the liberty of the citizen,
especially of his person; they interpret strictly statutes
which purport to diminish that liberty, and presume that
Parliament does not intend to restrict private rights in the
absence of clear words to the contrary.

14.     The trial Court had not taken into consideration the
provisions of the Code, more particularly Rule 11A of Order
XXI and the binding decisions of this Court, while passing the
impugned order.  The trial Court had not even recorded a
finding justifying the order of arrest.

15.     In the circumstances, the impugned order dated
10.07.2013 in E.P.No.75 of 2013 in O.S.No.477 of 2004
passed by the learned Junior Civil Judge, Nalgonda District is
set aside and the Civil Revision Petition is allowed.  The
miscellaneous petitions pending, if any, shall stand closed.
There shall be no order as to costs.

_______________________________     
A.RAMALINGESWARA RAO, J         
Date: 06.03.2015